# KnitwearDesignHelper

### What is it?
My goal for this app is that the user can input a few basic details about a knitted swatch, and some design choices they'd like to make, and recieve a fully formatted knitting pattern. The pattern will include a range of sizes (which match the sizing recommendations of the Craft Yarn Council) or will be tailored to the user's unique measurements. Yarn yardage estimates will also be given. 

### What garments will this generate patterns for?
- Hats (with multiple crown shaping options)
- Sweaters, with options for raglan, drop, batwing, yoked and set-in sleeves.
- Sweater vests
- Basic geometric shapes (for blankets etc)

### Program Structure (Nerd Stuff)
- This app is written in Javascript, using a test-driven development process. Jest is used for testing.  
- Garments are envisioned as a series of connected geometric shapes. These shapes are generated by a Swatch object that contains details of the users gauge swatch. The Swatch's methods also include functions for translating between measurements and stitch-counts.
- These shapes are stored as Shape objects, which contain details about the knitting needed to produce that shape in a give gauge.
- Each completed garment is an array of Shape objects, listed in the order they should be knitted. 

### Development Goals
**Proof of Concept**
- [ ] Gauge object and methods exist and work as expected
- [ ] App can design a hat in one size using command line
- [ ] App can output final dimensions
- [ ] App can output final stitch count
-  [ ] App can design a hat in all CYC sizes using command line 
-  [ ] App can output final stitch counts/dimensions for every size

**Basic UI**
- [ ] Responsive web app changes options based on choice of shape/hat
- [ ] App outputs pattern
- [ ] User can specify both number of crown decreases on hat, and stitches in main pattern repeat.
- [ ] App refreshes outputted pattern as user changes options

**Next steps**
- [ ] Plan tests for sweaters/vests
- [ ] Allow user to implement own sizing
- [ ] Make the output readable enough to submit it to a knitting publication.
- [ ] Deal with issues of yardage.
- [ ] Add vector graphics with sizing information
- [ ] Throw CSS at the UI so it looks *aesthetic*.



